clc;
close all;
clear all;
I = imread('iovp_image.jpg');
figure(1);
subplot(2,2,1);
imshow(I);
title('Original Image');
subplot(2,2,2);
imhist(I);
title('Histogram of Original Image');
J = histeq(I);
subplot(2,2,3);
imshow(J);
title('Histogram Equalization');
subplot(2,2,4);
imhist(J);
title('Histogram of Equalized Output');
K = histeq(J);
L = histeq(K);
figure(2);
subplot(2,2,1);
imshow(K);
title('Equalization Iteration 2');
subplot(2,2,2);
imhist(K);
title('Histogram of Equalization Iteration 2');
subplot(2,2,3);
imshow(L);
title('Equalization Iteration 3');
subplot(2,2,4);
imhist(L);
title('Histogram of Equalization Iteration 3');







Statistical properties of an image Mean: 
The mean is the average of a set of numbers, i.e. it is the central tendency (the way in which quantitative data tend to cluster around some value) of a collection of numbers taken as the sum of the numbers divided by the size of the collection. 
Variance: 
The mean is not always representative of the data, and other measures are needed to analyze the spread of the data. The variance is a measure of the distance of each number from the mean. In statistical approach, the variance is a measure of how far a set of numbers is spread out. It is one of several descriptors of a probability distribution, describing how far the numbers lie from the mean (expected value). In particular, the variance is one of the moments of a distribution. 
Standard Deviation: 
The standard deviation is considerably larger than the mean. Standard deviation shows how much variation or "dispersion" exists from the average (mean, or expected value). A low standard deviation indicates that the data points tend to be very close to the mean, whereas high standard deviation indicates that the data points are spread out over a large range of values. It is equivalent with square root of variance. 
Profile 
Profile is useful in obtaining details of amplitude variations in an image of a selected path. In short, profile is the grey values representation along a line. 
 
 
Fig. Profile of an image along a line. 
Histogram 
Histogram of a digital image with gray levels in range [0, L-1] is a discrete function. It can be represented as: h(rk) = nk 
Where, 
rk = kth gray level, and  nk = no. of pixels of that image having intensity value (gray level) rk. 
 
In histogram there are 4 primary possibilities as follows: 
1.For a dark image the components of histogram on the low (dark) side. 
2.For a bright image the component are on high (bright) side. 
3.For an image with low contrast they are in the middle of gray side. 
4.For an image with high contrast they are distributed or scattered. 
Histogram manipulations can be used effectively for image enhancement operations. 
Histogram Equalization 
 
Histogram equalization is a method in image processing of contrast adjustment using the image's histogram. 
Histogram equalization is done to spread the histogram components uniformly over the gray scale as far as possible. 
For an image of size M×N, Histogram equalization is obtained by the following mapping function: 
 
Where, 
sk = input intensity level 
rk = output intensity level after mapping 
If nk = total no. of pixels of intensity rk, we can conclude that, 
 
And thus, we can modify the above function as: 
 
Thus processed image is obtained by mapping each pixel with intensity level rk into a corresponding pixel with level sk in output image. This transformation is called Histogram equalization or Histogram linearization.
